180 Maybe I Could Do That Someday, I will be an adult. What will I do? It may be fun to think about that. There are people who work to save Planet Earth’s resources. Maybe I could do that. There are people who sell tick- ets at the movie theatre. Maybe I could do that. There are people who write poems and sonnets. Maybe I could do that. There are people who work at the radio station. Maybe I could do that. There are people who teach. Maybe I could do that. There are people who stock the shelves at the grocery store. Maybe I could do that.296 The New Social StoryTM Book, 15th Anniversary Edition © by Carol Gray, Future Horizons, Inc.There are people who find cures for diseases. Maybe I could do that.There are people who design and draw. Maybe I could do that.There are people who work in big cities. Maybe I could do that.There are people who work outdoors. Maybe I could do that.Someday, I will be an adult. What will I do? Just watch as I answer that. nThe New Social StoryTM Book, 15th Anniversary Edition 297© by Carol Gray, Future Horizons, Inc.PeSroscoianlal ACrtaicrleesSocial Stories are provided in a highly structured but also flexible writing format. They areright at home, describing how toilets work to a toddler, and are equally capable of describ-ing the ins and outs of making an effective apology to an adult. As Social Stories keep pacewith their growing Audience, the topics, format, font, and vocabulary change as well. Bythe time a child reaches adolescence, the tried-and-true Social Stories yield to their moreadvanced form, Social Articles. My name is Carol Gray, creator of these articles, and it’s mypleasure to introduce you to this rarely used yet valuable literary format.Social Articles meet all the same criteria as Social Stories, with several characteristics thatdistinguish them from their Story-based counterparts. Social Articles use a format thatincorporates Times New Roman font, columns, and advanced vocabulary. They are neverwritten in the Audience voice, and rarely contain any first-person statements. Charts andfigures are frequently used to organize or highlight ideas and may replace more traditionalor elementary illustrations.Dr. Tony Attwood and I wrote the first Figure 1: Frequent characteristics ofSocial Article, Gray’s Guide to Com- a Social Articlepliments. We surveyed workshopaudiences to gather much of the infor- • Address abstract or more advanced conceptsmation, asking questions like, “How • Times New Roman fontfrequently do you compliment your • Columnsspouse?” That information was sub- • Advanced vocabularysequently summarized in a 22-page • Never written in the Audience voice, andworkbook for adults with autism. often do not contain first-person statements • Charts and figures to enhance or highlightSocial Articles have a range of difficulty informationthat is similar to that of Social Stories.I consider one of the Social Articles inthis chapter, Why People Take Baths orShowers, as the most elementary version of a Social Article. It lies right on the seamlessborder between Social Stories and Articles. The remaining articles in this chapter appear inorder of difficulty, each demonstrating several of the characteristics described previouslyand listed in Figure 1 (above).The New Social StoryTM Book, 15th Anniversary Edition 301© by Carol Gray, Future Horizons, Inc.One final note: As I mentioned, Social Articles are never written in the Audience voice and thus, first-person statements are often not included. However, the Author may serve as the voice of an article. In this case, the author introduces himself or herself and his or her background, with care to identify any personal opinions or bias as information is shared. This makes it possible to provide general insights and conclusions about social concepts and skills or to express opinions or share advice through an opportunity that would not be available otherwise. This is demonstrated in Apologizing for an Unintentional Mistake, which closes this chapter and volume. I hope you enjoy it. I wish you all the best as you develop Social Articles and, of course, Social Stories.302 The New Social StoryTM Book, 15th Anniversary Edition © by Carol Gray, Future Horizons, Inc.