182 Sharing Planet Earth People live on Planet Earth. of the planet has summer, to share what they can’t pos- They share it. Sometimes somewhere else it is fall. sibly own or to share when it they share it well, but other Many people love summer, is just a part of their routine. times it’s harder for people and there are parts of Planet to share Planet Earth. Earth that get a lot more of People on Planet Earth it than others. People seem to have to think and work People on Planet Earth be okay with that, too. together to share other share some things easily. Day things. This includes adults. and night are one example. Even though the sun and The list of things that are When one side of the planet seasons are really big and harder to share is a lot lon- has day, the other has night. important, people share them ger than this whole book. There are times when some easily, without having to Here are six of them: money, people on the planet get a lot think much about it. Some- malted milk balls, oil, televi- of daylight, and others get a times parents may tell their sions, macaroni and cheese, lot less. But even though day- children that they “need to and neighborhoods. The light and night are unequal, learn how to share.” Children things on this list are smaller people seem to be okay with share sun and seasons as eas- than the sun and may be less that. The seasons are another ily as their parents. Here’s a important than a season, but example. When one part theory: It’s easier for people they are hard for many peo- ple to share. Here’s another theory: It’s more difficult for people to share something that has a limited supply. Sometimes even adults have to think about how to share things like that. They try to teach their children to share, too. People live on Planet Earth. They need to share it. Sometimes they share it eas-  ily, but other times they have to think about it. Sharing is a part of life for the adults and children of Planet Earth. n304 The New Social StoryTM Book, 15th Anniversary Edition © by Carol Gray, Future Horizons, Inc.