185 Apologizing for anUnintentional Mistake Please note: In this article, along with my observations It’s important to keep in mind the pronoun ‘he’ is used in of others over the last several that there are almost always reference to an individual, decades, provides an exten- exceptions when people are whether male or female, in sive apologetic background. involved. Regardless, I will place of the more awkward This article presents my try to the best of my ability“he and/or she.” theories and thoughts about to describe accurately what I apologies and the seven have found to be true about My name is Carol Gray. I am characteristics of those that effective apologies most of not an expert on apologies, are most likely to be the the time. although admittedly I do at most effective. times make mistakes that According to dictionary. require them. This gives me My general thoughts and reference.com, the most com- a wealth of experience that, theories may not be true in mon meaning of apology is every culture or situation. “... a written or spoken expres- sion of one’s regret, remorse, or sorrow for having insulted, failed, injured, or wronged another.” I also found three others, but in this article, I am focusing on the meaning that I have quoted here. People make mistakes with one another. It’s inev- itable. No human inhabitant of Planet Earth has a mistake score of zero. Some errors are intentional, and others are unintentional. When I was three years old, I placed my sister’s doll suitcase in the toilet. My intent was to put it inThe New Social StoryTM Book, 15th Anniversary Edition 307© by Carol Gray, Future Horizons, Inc.the toilet, and I did. It was 1. There was no negative small gift or flowers, or apol- a bad idea that became an intent, so realizing that ogies written on the inside of intentional mistake, and it someone was hurt is an a greeting card. Sometimes a made a perfectly good doll unpleasant surprise or a person may make something suitcase very soggy. My sis- shock; like a cake, cookies, picture, ter was upset. or something else to include 2. It may be difficult to as part of an apology. I estimate that I have take responsibility for made many more uninten- a mistake when it was Once a person decides tional mistakes. These are accidental; or to apologize, there are seven the mistakes where I meant things that he or she can do no harm, I wasn’t thinking 3. The person hurt or incon- (Figure 1) to increase the about hurting anyone, but venienced by the mistake odds that it will improve the I did harm. For example, I often feels sad or angry, feelings of everyone involved. have said things without and thus is likely to be not 1. The best apologies are thinking it through and ended as much fun to approach up causing someone to feel or chat with as when he is sincere. The person who unhappy or angry. I’ve also calm and happy. is apologizing regrets accidently damaged some- that his words or actions thing that does not belong to This is not a complete list. have hurt or inconve- me. I’ve also inconvenienced There are other reasons why nienced the other person. people without knowing it apologizing for an unin- until it was too late and the tentional mistake may be Figure 1: Seven char- damage was already done. uncomfortable. acteristics of an apology In the remainder of this dis- most likely to be effective cussion I’m going to focus Apologizing is not following an uninten- on those unintentional errors always uncomfortable. A that negatively impact others lot depends on the people tional mistake. and the apologies most likely involved and the severity to be effective. of the mistake. One thing is The best apologies: for sure—everyone makes 1. Are sincere. Many people feel anx- unintentional mistakes, and 2. Use good timing. ious or uneasy when they an apology is often a help- 3. Begin with a name. realize they’ve made a mis- ful antidote. 4. Describe the mistake. take and need to apologize. 5. Express regret. Understanding where the Before going any fur- 6. Acknowledge the other discomfort is coming from ther, it’s important to note may help. Apologizing may that apologies can take many person’s feelings. be uncomfortable because: forms. There are verbal 7. Are responsible. apologies, emailed apolo- gies, apologies attached to a308 The New Social StoryTM Book, 15th Anniversary Edition © by Carol Gray, Future Horizons, Inc.2.	The best apologies use apology right from the 4.	The best apologies good timing. First, apol-  start. Waiting for an describe the mistake. In ogizing sooner is much acknowledgment, for my experience, there better than apologizing eyes to look up from have been times when later, and apologizing a current activity or I start to apologize, and later is better than apol- another indication of then realize the other ogizing a lot later. The attention is a good idea. person doesn’t quite less time that passes In addition to someone’s know what I am talking between a mistake and name, many people find about. Life gets busy, its apology, the better. that saying something many things happen, Second, People learn to like, “I need to talk to and it may take a per- deliver an apology when you. Is this a good time?” son a while to focus on the other person has is a great way to deter- a specific event in the time to talk and listen. mine if the timing is right past, even if it is the It’s risky to apologize (described in #2) before immediate past. For this to a person who is cur- continuing by listening reason, the best apolo- rently busy, distracted, for the answer. gies include a description or stressed by another of the mistake, even if situation. For example, the other person was a boy who tries to apol- there at the time. Includ- ogize to his mom while ing a description of the she is rushing to prepare mistake is absolutely a dinner party for eight critical if the other per- eminent guests is using son is not aware that a poor timing. Unless, that mistake has been made. is, the boy is sorry that For example, “Remem- his frog just jumped into ber when you loaned me the filled punch bowl. In your jacket yesterday? I this case, it’s not good wore it to the game, and news, not a good time, as I took it off it fell into but Mom needs to know the mud and water.” he is sorry now. 5.	The best apologies3. The best apologies begin express regret and mean with a name. For many it. I have a theory about people, hearing their the phrase, “I am sorry.” name recruits their atten- It’s difficult for many tion. It personalizes an people to say this phrase,The New Social StoryTM Book, 15th Anniversary Edition 309© by Carol Gray, Future Horizons, Inc.because doing so feels Mom and may turn ties. In terms of the jacket, like an admission of efforts toward a solution including an offer to clean guilt. When a mistake is sooner. Or, in the case it is an important part of the unintentional, admitting of the muddy jacket, a apology. Adding evidence guilt often doesn’t quite statement like “I know of thoughts regarding next seem to fit the situa- this is your favorite time, as in, “I wish I had tion. “I’m sorry” doesn’t jacket,” may dissolve been more careful and put always mean a person is understandable disap- the jacket in my backpack” guilty. The details sur- pointment or anger. begins to rebuild trust. rounding the mistake do 7. The best apologies are that. It often simply is responsible. They include I’ve listed these char- an expression of regret an offer to help solve the acteristics as a guide and a that means I am sorry problem, a promise to do summary of my own expe- this happened. things differently in the riences and observations of 6.	The best apologies future, or both. others. They are definitely include an acknowl- not intended as a series of edgment of the other Continuing with our exam- defined steps. person’s feelings. For ples, the boy may return the the boy with the frog frog to his cage, offer to help An apology may be in mom’s punch bowl, clean the bowl and make a effective without meeting all saying “Mom, I know new batch of punch, as well seven characteristics. That’s you want things right as promise to keep the frog definitely why I mentioned for the party,” supports away from future dinner par- earlier that, whenever peo- ple are involved, there is an exception to every rule! n310 The New Social StoryTM Book, 15th Anniversary Edition © by Carol Gray, Future Horizons, Inc.