XXGlossaryThe New Social StoryTM Book, 15th Anniversary Edition 311© by Carol Gray, Future Horizons, Inc.What is a Glossary?A dictionary is an alphabetical list of wordsand definitions. People use a dictionary tolearn how to spell or say a word, or to findout what a word means.A glossary is an alphabetical list of words,too. It describes the meanings of difficultwords or phrases in a book. This is the glos-sary for The New Social Story Book.Each word has meaning. Some words, likedictionary and glossary, each have one meaning. Many other words have more than onemeaning. The word word is one of them. Word may mean a spoken sound or set of soundsthat has meaning, a piece of news, a short speech, or a promise.Once in a while, people need a dictionary or glossary to help them with words. They mayneed help with words like transform, which is listed in this glossary. This is to be expected.Expect is another one of the words in this glossary. This glossary has many other words andphrases in it, too.There is a special section at the end titled Words and Phrases that Describe Frequency. Ithas many words and phrases that people use to describe how often something happens oroccurs. In that section are words like sometimes and never, as well as phrases like now andthen, or most of the time. These, and other words and phrases like them, are used frequentlyin this book. (Even the word frequently is in that section). Because the meanings for many ofthese words and phrases are so close, they are described as a group.The New Social StoryTM Book, 15th Anniversary Edition 313© by Carol Gray, Future Horizons, Inc.In this glossary, each word or phrase is listed in boldface. It is followed by the part of speech in parentheses, like this: ( ). A definition is next, followed by the word used in a sample sentence. Sample sentences are from this book, and appear in italics. For example, the word glossary would appear like this: Glossary (noun) A glossary is an alphabetical list of difficult or unusual words and phrases found in a book. Sample sentence: This glossary has many other words and phrases in it, too. People may use the following glossary to look up the meanings of some of the more difficult words and phrases in this book. n314 The New Social StoryTM Book, 15th Anniversary Edition © by Carol Gray, Future Horizons, Inc.GlossaryCalm (adjective)Calm means quiet, peaceful, relaxed; not upset. Sample sentence: It’s important to try to stay calm.Calm voice (adjective+noun)A calm voice is peaceful and friendly, comfortable for other people to listen to. Sample sentence: When I am happy, it may be easy for me to talk with my calm voice and cooperative words.Cooperate (verb)Cooperate means to work or playtogether in a helpful way, for thesame goal. Sample sentence: When people want help, they cooperate with you.Cooperation (noun)Cooperation is the act of working orplaying together in a helpful way, forthe same goal. Sample sentence: Cooperation is a clue that my sister wants my help.Cooperative (adjective)Cooperative means willing to help or cooperate with others (see Cooperate). Sample sentence: When a fun activity ends, I will try to stay calm and cooperative.The New Social StoryTM Book, 15th Anniversary Edition 315© by Carol Gray, Future Horizons, Inc.Cooperative words (adjective+noun) Cooperative words are single words, phrases, or sentences that help people work and play together for the same goal. Cooperative words are stated in a calm and friendly tone of voice (see Calm voice). Sample sentence: Talking with respect is using a calm, controlled voice with cooperative words. Expect (verb) When expect is used in this book, it has one of two meanings. Expect may mean to think ahead, to guess that something will probably happen. Sample sentence: As an inventor, he expected to make mistakes. 2. Expect may mean to believe that something should happen. Sample sentence: Once in a while, though, children are expected to shake hands. Experience (noun) When experience is used in this book, it has one of two meanings. Experience may mean an event or activity, something that a person sees, hears, or does. Sample sentence: A true story often describes an experience. Experience may mean knowledge that is gained by doing something, or by practicing a skill. Sample sentence: They have a lot of experience. Frustrate/Frustrating (verb) Frustrate means to be stopped or kept from reaching a goal, or unable to do what a per- son wants to do. Sample sentence: Waiting to open a gift may be a little frustrating, especially for children.316 The New Social StoryTM Book, 15th Anniversary Edition © by Carol Gray, Future Horizons, Inc.Guess (verb or noun)When guess is used in this book,it has one of two meanings.Guess may mean to believesomething may be true, correct,or the right thing to do, withoutenough information to know forsure if it is true, correct, or theright thing to do. (verb) Sample sentence: Another way that adults often say yes is, “Okay, I guess,” or back- wards, “I guess it’s okay.”Guess may mean a belief withoutenough information to know for sure if it is correct or true. (noun) Sample sentence: Grandpa says that many people like to wrap gifts, so his guess is that they will wrap them this year, too.Predict (verb)To predict is to know something will happen ahead of time; often it is a guess that is basedon information. Weather forecasters try to predict the weather. Sample sentences: No one can predict exactly when someone may try to bully another person. No one can predict exactly what a student may do in a bullying attempt.Step (noun)When step is used in this book, it has one of three meanings.Step may mean putting one foot forward, backward, or sideways. Sample sentence: I had to keep repeating “excuse me” every few steps.Step may mean a place to put one’s foot to move up or down. One step is one part of a setof stairs or staircase. Sample sentence: For example, they may forget their lunch, trip going up steps, or dial a phone number incorrectly.The New Social StoryTM Book, 15th Anniversary Edition 317© by Carol Gray, Future Horizons, Inc.Step may also mean one of a series of actions that complete a task, or reach a goal. Sample sentence: We will complete it step by step, following the directions and answering the questions together. Social Story (noun) A Social Story is a true story that describes a situation, skill, or idea. It is researched, written, and illustrated according to ten criteria or characteristics. Sample sentence: The New Social Story™ Book by Carol Gray contains many Social Stories. Surprise (verb or noun) When surprise is used in this book, it has one of two meanings. Surprise may mean something that happens unexpectedly. (verb) Sample sentence: Children may be surprised to learn that most adults like to say “yes” whenever they can. Surprise may mean something that is not expected, for example, a statement, gift, action, or event. (noun) Sample sentence: Many people think that nice surprises are fun. Theory (noun) A theory is a guess or opinion that explains how or why something happens. A theory is often based on some facts, or experience, but not proven. Sample sentence: Here’s a theory: It’s easier for people to share what they can’t possibly own, or to share when it is just a part of their routine.318 The New Social StoryTM Book, 15th Anniversary Edition © by Carol Gray, Future Horizons, Inc.Thing (noun)In this book, thing has one of seven meanings.Thing(s) may mean any real object(s) or item(s). Sample sentence: He invented many other things, too.Thing(s) may mean almost any topic(s) or idea. Sample sentence: When I look at these photos, it reminds me of one thing that I have learned about parties.Thing(s) may mean almost any activity (activities). Sample sentence: There are things that I like to do.Thing(s) may mean one person’s clothing, toys,or personal items. Sample sentence: We’ll put most of my toys and other things in moving boxes.Thing(s) may mean almost any statement(s) that is said, or written. Sample sentence: We try to say the same thing, but with respect.Thing(s) may mean almost any event(s). Sample sentence: Sometimes things happen, though, and people cannot come.Thing(s) may mean the condition of a friendship, relationship, event, or activity. Sample sentence: Soon, they want to make things right again.There are more meanings for the word thing in the dictionary. In this book, when thingis used in a sentence, it has one of these listed meanings.That’s Life on Planet Earth (phrase)That’s Life of Planet Earth is a phrase that usually follows a description of an experiencethat almost all people have in common. These may be comfortable, good, experiences. Or,they may be uncomfortable or unwanted experiences. Either way, they are a part of life forThe New Social StoryTM Book, 15th Anniversary Edition 319© by Carol Gray, Future Horizons, Inc.almost all people on Planet Earth. Sample uses of the phrase, That’s Life on Planet Earth: Sad is an uncomfortable feeling. It’s okay for people to feel sad. When people feel sad they try to find a way to be happy again. That’s Life on Planet Earth. Mistakes are a part of Life on Planet Earth. That is correct. Permission is needed when a child has an idea, and it’s an adult’s decision to make. Sometimes children get the permission that they need, other times they don’t. Either way, that’s Life on Planet Earth! This is Okay (phrase) This is okay is a phrase that usually follows a description of a surprising, unwanted or uncomfortable situation. This is okay means that even though a situation may not be what someone would like, it needs to happen—or will happen—in the way just described. This is okay also means that while a situation may be surprising, unwanted, or uncomfortable, it is safe. Sample uses of the phrase, This is okay: The truth is, adults don’t know everything. This is okay. The line of people, with me in it, may need to stop and wait now and then. This is okay. Sometimes, I may go to the babysitter’s house to stay until Mom or Dad come back for me. This is okay. Transform (verb) Transform means to completely change how a living being or thing looks or functions (how it works).320 The New Social StoryTM Book, 15th Anniversary Edition © by Carol Gray, Future Horizons, Inc.Sample sentence: Just watch me transform 321 as I grow!Transformation (noun)A transformation is a big change in how aliving being or thing looks or functions(how it works). Sample sentence: This is the transformation stage.Transformer (noun)In the dictionary, a transformer is a device thatchanges electrical voltage. In this book, trans-former is a living being that makes big changesin appearance or function (how it works). Sample sentence: A butterfly is a real transformer.Welcome (verb, noun, or adjective)When welcome is used in this book, it has oneof two meanings.Welcome may mean to give someone a friendlygreeting as they arrive (verb). Sample sentence: Welcome to Fort Able!Welcome may mean to receive in a friendly way (adjective). Sample sentence: Here’s a theory: Expected and welcome changes are the easiest.Unexpected (adjective)Unexpected means happening as a surprise, without any warning. Sample sentence: Since fires and tornadoes are often unexpected, it’s important to practice for them that way.The New Social StoryTM Book, 15th Anniversary Edition© by Carol Gray, Future Horizons, Inc.Unwelcome (adjective) Unwelcome means not wanted, accepted, or welcome. Sample sentence: A flat tire on a car is an unexpected and unwelcome surprise. WORDS AND PHRASES ABOUT FREQUENCY Many words and phrases describe how often something happens, or its frequency. For example, the word “always” means continuously, every time, or on every occasion. The word “never” means at no time, not on any occasion. “Always” and “never” have opposite mean- ings: “always” is every time, “never” is not ever. In the drawing below, “always” and “never” are placed at opposite ends of the line to show the opposite meanings. Several people were asked to arrange words and phrases from this book, according to their frequency. The results are placed on the line between “never” and “always.” The closer the word or phrase is to “always,” the greater its frequency. Words with similar meanings are the same color. To figure out the meaning of a word or phrase, look at its color and placement on the line. There are many other words and phrases used to describe how often something happens, but these are the words and phrases used in this book. n ALWAYS (EVERY TIME) MOST OF THE TIME USUALLY/MANY TIMES FREQUENTLY SOMETIMES/ ONCE IN A WHILE NOW AND THEN NEVER (NOT EVER)322 The New Social StoryTM Book, 15th Anniversary Edition © by Carol Gray, Future Horizons, Inc.Foreword to the 10th Anniversary EditionCarol Gray originally developed Social Stories™ in 1991 from working directly and collaborativelywith children with autism and Asperger’s Syndrome. For nearly twenty years, she has been modify-ing the guidelines for writing Social Stories™, based on extensive personal experience and feedbackfrom parents, teachers, and the children themselves. The ideas and strategies have matured overthe years and Social Stories™ have now been examined independently in numerous research studiespublished in scientific journals. There is no doubt that the use of Social Stories™ in education andtherapy is what scientists describe as “evidence-based practice.” Social Stories™ really do work.Whenever I learn that Carol Gray is working on a new publication, I become quite excited in antici-pation of reading her latest insights into how children with an autism spectrum disorders perceiveand experience the world. I know that her innovative ideas and strategies will be incorporated intomy clinical practice, and that I will be recommending the latest publication to teachers, parents,and colleagues. As I read the manuscript for the The New Social Story Book, I thought, “Carol, youhave done it again!” She has written another exceptional resource that will improve not only socialunderstanding but also self-understanding. Carol has remarkable insight into the world of autismand the neurotypical world, and her Social Stories™ are for members of both—improving mutualunderstanding, communication, and acceptance.This book is complementary to Carol’s other publications and provides examples of Social Stories™that can be used without modification, or adapted and edited to suit a specific child and his or herunique abilities and circumstances. I recommend The New Social Story Book for those who are new tothe area of autism and Asperger’s Syndrome as a parent, teacher, therapist, or psychologist, and alsofor those with considerable experience writing Social Stories™. I often refer to my copy as a source ofguidance and inspiration when I am working with a child who has Asperger’s Syndrome.From her extensive experience of working with children, parents, and teachers, Carol knows theproblem areas—the “hot topics.” These include coping with change, making mistakes, specificsituations (such as attending a birthday party or being an airline passenger), and managing andexpressing emotions. Carol chooses her words very carefully. Great thought, wisdom, and talentThe New Social StoryTM Book, 15th Anniversary Edition 323© by Carol Gray, Future Horizons, Inc.went into this new publication. There are some parts I will always remember, in particular the state- ment, “Adults are children who kept getting older,” and the Social Story™ for when “some gifts are disappointing.” I know that children with an autism spectrum disorder and neurotypical adults alike will enjoy and appreciate the comprehensive explanations and the sage advice in The New Social Story Book. TONY ATTWOOD, PH.D.324 The New Social StoryTM Book, 15th Anniversary Edition © by Carol Gray, Future Horizons, Inc.

