61 We’re Going to a Big Family Party Our whole, big family is having a holiday party. Last year we had a holiday party. There may be clues to what we will eat and do this year’s party. My family is looking and listening for those clues, and making guesses about this year’s party. I will be going to the party with my mom, dad, my brother, Hunter, and our dog, Jasper. We’re going to my Aunt Rhonda’s house. Grandpa and Grandma Hill, Aunt Rhonda’s boy- friend, Kevin, my Uncle Jess and his family, and my Aunt Rose and her family are invited to the party. Invited means they are welcome to come. Sometimes things happen, though, and people cannot come. We’ll see for sure who is coming once we get to the party. We had a big, holiday party last year. My dad has photos of last year’s party in his computer. Dad says I may look at those whenever I want. Those photos help my family guess what we may do at this year’s party. Some things may be the same. Some things may be different. Even if a party happens every year, it’s never exactly the same as it was the year before. That would be impossible. Last year, there was a lot of food. Some of it was adult food. I told my Grandma that the adult food looked pretty, but I did not want to eat it. There was good kid food, too. There were also a lot of desserts. Mom’s guess is that there will be good kid food and desserts at this year’s party. Last year, the people brought wrapped gifts. Hunter and I are hoping they will do that again! I told Grandpa Hill that I wish they wouldn’t wrap the gifts. He says many people like to wrap gifts, so his guess is that they will wrap them this year, too. Last year, I couldn’t read. It was my job to give people gifts to open. Even though I couldn’t read, it was easy. There was a small photo pasted to the corner of each gift. I would look at the photo, and take the gift to that person. I felt smart and important.130 The New Social StoryTM Book, 15th Anniversary Edition © by Carol Gray, Future Horizons, Inc.This year, my younger brother, Hunter, gets to give people gifts to open. Last year it was myturn. This year, it’s Hunter’s turn. I can read now. My mom says that even though I can readthe to-and-from cards, it’s important to stay quiet. It’s important to let Hunter look at thephotos and feel smart and important, like I felt last year.My mom has been talking a lot on the phone to my Aunt Rhonda and Grandma Hill. They aremaking the plans for the party this year. Plans are clues to what may happen. Sometimes,plans can change, though. That’s important to try to remember. Mom writes down the plansfor this year’s party. She lets me look at the plans whenever I want to.My family is going to a big holiday party. The whole family is invited. My family is looking andlistening for clues to what we will eat and do at this year’s party. We find clues in photos. Wefind other clues in party plans. This year’s party will give us photos and clues for next year! nThe New Social StoryTM Book, 15th Anniversary Edition 131© by Carol Gray, Future Horizons, Inc.